Gathering of Vidyādharas 1 The Inner Practice from the Heart-Essence of the Vast Expanse I. The Preliminaries 2. Generating the Bodhicitta 3. Accumulating Merit and Wisdom 4. Issuing the Command to Obstructing Forces 5. Meditating on the Protective Circle 6. The Descent of Wisdom Blessings 7. Blessing the Offerings II. The Main Part of the Practice 1.The Visualization 2. Invitation 3. Request for the Deities to Take Their Places 4. Symbolic Prostration 5. Consecration of Offerings 6. Offering Praise and Homage 7. The Mantra Visualization III. The Conclusion: The Stages of the Feast Gathering 1. Blessing the Offering 2. Inviting the Field of Accumulation 3. Offering the First Portion of the Feast Offering 4. The Intermediate Offering: Confession 5. Liberation and Offering 6. Dedicating the Remainder Offering 7. Invoking the Sacred Pledge 8. Invoking the Covenant 9. Maintaining the Relationship with the Tenma Goddesses 18 10. Horse Dance 11. Receiving the Siddhis 12. Confession of Mistakes in Practice 13. Dissolution 14. Dedication 15. Prayer for Auspiciousness
Vajraguru Vidyādharaye!
Namo! Along with all infinite sentient beings
And with my heart filled with devotion, I take refuge
In the guru, who is the essence of the Three Jewels,
And in the ocean-like maṇḍala of the vidyādharas!
Hoḥ! Having entered this maṇḍala of the vidyādharas,
So that I can liberate all beings in the six realms,
My very parents, with an immeasurable compassion
I give birth to bodhicitta, relative—in aspiration and action—and absolute!
Hoḥ. Like bubbles appearing on water, all of you deities arise
From the space of primordial wisdom. Before you:
I prostrate in direct awareness of the ultimate nature,
I offer the increase of visionary experience,
I confess in the full measure of awareness,
I rejoice in the exhaustion of phenomenal reality:
I implore you: turn the wheel of Dharma from the expanse of ‘great transference’,
I request you: please remain in the great rainbow body,
I dedicate all the merit toward the youthful vase body.
Hrīḥ! In this manifesting maṇḍala of the environment and beings,
All you malicious and obstructing demonic forces—
Take this torma 2 and begone elsewhere!
Obey this command or be annihilated by the vajra!
Hrīḥ. In the infinite purity of appearance and existence,
Not even the names of negative or obstructing forces exist.
Yet for the obstacles created by delusory fleeting thoughts,
I set the boundary, confining them within the dharmadhātu.
Hūṃ. From your dharmakāya palace, natural simplicity,
Primordial Buddha Samantabhadra,
Buddhas of the five families with consorts and retinues of emanations—
Gurus of the mind-direct transmission, shower down your blessings!
From the vajra palace in all its magical display,
Garab Dorje, Mañjuśrīmitra,
Śrī Siṃha, Jñānasūtra and the others—
Gurus of the sign transmission, shower down your blessings!
From the palace of nirmāṇakāyas who train beings,
Eight vidyādharas, Lotus-Born Guru,
King and subjects, twenty-five disciples, and the others—
Gurus of the oral transmission, shower down your blessings!
Cause this maṇḍala to shine in vivid splendour!
Make the practice materials glisten and sparkle!
Ignite the great bliss in my body, speech and mind!
Grant me attainments, 3 ordinary and supreme!
oṃ āḥ hūṃ | vidyādhara e ārali pheṃ pheṃ | hūṃ hūṃ hūṃ | hūṃ hūṃ hūṃ | hūṃ hūṃ hūṃ ||
Oṃ āḥ hūṃ. Offering clouds of all that appears and exists
Are blessed as primordial wisdom nectar,
And all offerings, outer, inner and secret, transform
Into Samantabhadra’s vast and miraculous display.
oṃ vajra-arghaṃ pādyaṃ puṣpe dhūpe āloke gandhe naivedye śabda | sarva-pañca rakta baliṅta mahā-sukha pūjā āḥ hūṃ
Hūṃ. Unaltered awareness, empty yet luminously clear,
Vividly sees 4 all that appears and arises dependently
As spontaneously present and infinitely pure—
The great maṇḍala, naturally and perfectly complete.
Its delightful palace, boundless, inconceivable,
Is square, with four doors and its authentic features,
Symbols, meanings and significance all complete,
With no outside or inside, vast and translucent.
In its centre, on a multi-coloured lotus, sun and moon, is Hūṃ,
Transforming and perfect the very instant I think of it,
And I arise as the actual presence of all the buddhas—
The Lotus-Born Guru who prevails over all that appears and exists,
With one face and two hands, white tinged with red.
As a sign of complete mastery over the three vehicles,
I wear monastic robes, gown and cape.
My right hand wields a five-spoked vajra in the threatening mudrā;
My left hand holds a skull-cup containing a long-life vase;
Cradled in my left arm is the beautiful goddess, Mandāravā.
On my head I am wearing the lotus hat,
And I am seated in the graceful posture of royal poise.
Above me, in a shimmering aura of spheres of rainbow light,
Sits Garab Dorje with his saṃbhogakāya adornments,
Brilliant white, holding vajra and bell across his heart.
Above his head is the primordial lord
Samantabhadra with his consort, the colour of the sky.
Around me, on each of the eight lotus petals,
In the midst of five-coloured spheres of light,
Appear the eight vidyādharas, adepts of the Awesome Ones,
All of them clad in heruka costume,
Their two hands playing ḍamaru and bell.
Moving in dance, in union with their consorts,
Each one the colour of their respective direction, or dark blue in the intermediate directions.
In essence they are the deities of the eight sādhana classes.
All around are the vidyādharas of India and Tibet,
And the twenty-five incarnations—the king and subjects—
In their very own guise and garments,
And performing all kinds of vajra dance.
Above are the yidam deities, ḍākas and ḍākinīs
Of the four and six classes of tantra—
Serried like seeds in a sesame pod.
On the outer walkway are the seventy-five glorious protectors
And the twenty-eight īśvarīs and so on,
Attendants and samaya-bound guardians, all swirling like the wind.
At the four gates loom the four great kiṃkara.
All of the deities are the play of appearance and emptiness,
Clear, distinct, and spontaneously present,
Their three centres marked with the three syllables
That are the essence of vajra body, speech and mind.
They shoot out intense rays of light to invite you—
From the supreme realm of the natural dharmadhātu,
From the nirmāṇakāya realm of Oḍḍiyāna in the west,
From power places and sacred lands, the eight charnel-grounds,
And above all from Cāmaradvīpa 5
And the Copper-Coloured Mountain of Glory. 6
All you deities in the maṇḍala of the Gathering of Vidyādharas—
I invite you now to this place! Samāja!
Hūṃ. At the very beginning of an age long ago,
In the north-west of the land of Oḍḍiyāna,
In the heart of a lotus flower,
Endowed with the most marvellous attainments,
You are renowned as the ‘Lotus-born’,
Surrounded by your retinue of many ḍākinīs
And vast gatherings of vidyādharas and siddhas.
Following in your footsteps, I practise.
Come! Inspire us with your blessings—
Shower down your blessings on this perfect place!
Grant us, supreme practitioners, the four empowerments!
Remove any negativity, obstructing force or disturbance for our practice!
Grant us attainments, ordinary and supreme!
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra-guru-padma tötrengtsal | vajra-samāja jaḥ jaḥ
Hūṃ. In this maṇḍala created by skilful means,
All of you deities invited from the space of wisdom— 7
Maṇḍala deities of the vidyādhara gurus—
Remain here, relishing our lack of duality.
vajra-samaya tiṣṭha len
Hūṃ. The deity is myself; I am the deity.
In this naturally self-arising maṇḍala,
There is nothing good to accept or bad to reject.
Realizing that interdependence, symbolically I prostrate.
atipu hoḥ | pratīccha hoḥ
Oṃ āḥ hūṃ. Outer and inner, environment and beings, all arise as offering clouds:
Desirable things and the five sensory delights,
Auspicious substances and symbols, seven emblems of royalty,
Medicine, torma and rakta, purely and joyfully offered,
Beautiful offering goddesses, laughing as they dance,
And a hundred thousand consorts bringing great blissful union.
Offering, offerer and recipients of the offering—
All are utterly pure within the space of wisdom.
This great mudrā of offering
I present to you, deities of the Gathering of Vidyādharas.
Please accept it, and grant empowerments and attainments!
oṃ vajra-arghaṃ pādyaṃ puṣpe dhūpe āloke gandhe naivedye śabda rūpa śabda gandha rāsa sparśa āḥ hūṃ
sarva-pañca baliṅta rakta mahā-sukha dharmadhātu āḥ hūṃ
Hrīḥ! Guru dharmakāya, the unaltered nature, free of concepts,
Guru saṃbhogakāya, the enjoyment of great bliss, lord of Dharma,
Guru nirmāṇakāya, born from within a lotus flower—
Guru vajradhara, the three kāyas all in one, to you I offer homage and praise!
At Śaṅkarakūṭa you attained siddhis, vast and profound,
In the eight charnel grounds you captured the stronghold of realization,
Mastering an infinite ocean of maṇḍalas—
Eight supreme vidyādharas, to you I offer homage and praise!
Soaring through the vast space, the expanse, of realization,
You guide beings, displaying all kinds of appearances or yogic feats,
And you hold the life-force of realization of the wondrous Vajra Essence—
Twenty-five ‘heirs of the heart’—king and subjects—to you I offer homage and praise!
And then, in this manifested maṇḍala of the vidyādharas,
Gurus, devas and ḍākinīs here on account of samaya and compassion,
With protectors and messengers pouring from the space of primordial wisdom—
Deities of the entire maṇḍala, to you I offer homage and praise!
At my heart, upon a lotus, sun and moon,
Is a blue syllable hūṃ, around which revolves
The mantra garland, as fine as if written with a single hair.
Rays of light stream out that purify the environment and beings.
Now I meditate on the utterly pure maṇḍala of deities.
Until this is actualized, I shall not let go of the practice!
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra-guru padma siddhi hūṃ
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra-māha-guru sarva siddhi hūṃ
Hūṃ. From our hearts, the syllables raṃ , yaṃ and khaṃ stream out
And purify any faults or defects in the feast offerings.
Oṃ , āḥ and hūṃ transform the offerings into nectar,
And the sensory delights  multiply till they are as vast as space.
raṃ yaṃ khaṃ | oṃ āḥ hūṃ
Hūṃ. From Akaniṣṭha, realm of great bliss,
From the land of Oḍḍiyāna in the west,
And especially from Cāmara’s Mountain of Glory, 9
From power places and sacred lands like the eight charnel grounds,
All of you deities in the gathering of vidyādharas,
We invite you to this gaṇacakra feast—come now, we pray.
The charnel ground feast hall runs over with joy,
This gathering of ḍākinīs so heart-warming and inspiring,
Yogins and yoginīs so pure in their samaya,
These delectable feast offerings gleaming in splendour.
Come, shower down your blessings on this feast!
Grant us attainments, ordinary and supreme!
Hūṃ. Deities of the three roots, ocean of vidyādharas,
Ḍākinīs and Dharma guardians who keep the samaya,
We offer you this sumptuous feast of sensory delights.
Grant us attainments, ordinary and supreme!
gaṇacakra pūja khāhi
Hūṃ. Throughout all our lives without beginning,
Any transgressions of the root or branch samayas
We have committed since entering the Great Vehicle’s Secret Mantra,
With this feast offering of sensory delights, we now confess!
vajra-samaya āḥ
Hūṃ. Ignorance, karma, destructive emotions and dualistic grasping,
And all the self- grasping and rudras they breed—
Let them be cast into this effigy— nṛ tṛ jaḥ ] 10
Their consciousness released into the dharmadhātu— phaṭ!
And their body enjoyed as an offering in the gaṇacakra feast.
rudra sarva hala pañca pūja khāhi
Hūṃ. You that dwell on the edge of the great maṇḍala—
Īśvarī, kiṃkara and laṅkā spirits—
Accept this remainder torma
And protect us yogins and yoginis from obstacles to accomplishing enlightenment.
ucchiṣṭa baliṃ te khāhi
Hūṃ. Rise up, deities in this Gathering of Vidyādharas!
Arise from the dharmadhātu in your wisdom form! 11
Crush any obstacles to our attaining enlightenment!
Halt any waning of the elements in environment and beings!
Heal any weakness in our channels, wind-energy and authentic presence! 12
And cause our practice to bear fruit!
Hūṃ. Long ago, in the Akaniṣṭha, heaven of great bliss,
In places full of joy, like the three god realms, 13
When the great secret tantras were being revealed,
You guardians of the Vajrayāna teachings
Were assigned places in keeping with your solemn samayas.
Then in Tibet, the land of snows,
When the master Pema Tötreng 14
Turned the Dharma wheel of the secret mantras,
He seized the life-force, the heart, of all the chief gods and demons,
And enlisted them as protectors of the teachings.
Finally, in the pure realm of clear light,
And in the palace of great bliss,
The vidyādhara Pema Wangchen 15
Was empowered by the Lotus-Born and Drimé Özer 16
With the infinite Vast Expanse. 17
When the ḍākinī of the ultimate space of wisdom
Entrusted him with the symbolic script of this Luminous Expanse,
You, Za Rāhula ‘Life Force Razor ’ and the others,
Took a solemn oath to guard this teaching.
So, accept this offering torma with all its ornaments,
And carry out the four activities!
Hūṃ. You obey the Awesome One’s commands and protect Tibet,
Twelve Tenma goddesses—mothers and sisters—
Come! Accept this rinsing water of the torma,
And perform the tasks entrusted to you!
mama hrīṃ hrīṃ baliṃ te khāhi
Hūṃ. Here in this maṇḍala of the enlightened vidyādharas,
All the damsi demons who corrupt and lead astray
Are suppressed beneath the seal of the nine vehicles.
Let them never rise again!
stvaṃ bhaya nen
Hoḥ. Deities of the maṇḍala of the vidyādharas,
The commitments of approach and accomplishment are fulfilled,
And the dawn of Vajrasattva is breaking.
The time has come to grant the siddhis!
So from the maṇḍalas of your body, speech and mind, bless us
With the supreme and secret wisdom—that dwells neither in saṃsāra nor nirvāṇa,
And is the essence of the vajra body, speech and mind—
And grant us all the attainments, common and supreme,
Here and now, this very instant, we pray!
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra guru tötrengtsal vajra samaya jaḥ | kāya vāk citta alala siddhi phala hūṃ āḥ
Hūṃ. In this maṇḍala of the Gathering of Vidyādharas,
If our offerings were incomplete, our practice inattentive,
Or our meditation drowsy, dull or lifeless,
Pray forgive all such error and confusion.
Hoḥ. Just like bubbles form and vanish on a stream,
The deities of the self-emanated maṇḍala
Dissolve back into the space of primordial wisdom— vajra muḥ!
In post-meditation, everything arises as the illusion-like form of the deity.
Hoḥ. All sources of good accumulated in past, present and future,
We dedicate as the cause for every being to realize primordial omniscience.
May I and all those gathered here
Attain enlightenment together, in one maṇḍala!
Hoḥ. Through the blessing of the lineage of vidyādharas,
The truth of the Three Jewels—Buddha, Dharma and Sangha,
And the interdependent circumstances of profound Secret Mantra,
May all be auspicious, to pacify the eight fears! 19
May all be auspicious, for increasing longevity and merit!
May all be auspicious, to bring appearances under our control!
May all be auspicious, to annihilate negative, misleading forces!
With all attachment to perception perfected as the form of the deity,
All sound purified into the great bliss of mantra,
All thoughts matured into the clear light of dharmakāya—
May all be auspicious, so that we attain the translucent rainbow body!