A Concise and Essential Offering Ritual for the Guardians of the Doctrine from The Wish-Fulfilling Jewel Guru Heart-Practice
Namo śrī-guru-mahā-sukhāya!
raṃ yaṃ khaṃ
oṃ āḥ hūṃ hoḥ
From the seed-syllable in the heart center of myself visualized as the yidam, light rays stream forth inviting the the Blazing Seven Nāga and Tsen Siblings and their retinues from their natural dwelling places. Instantly, they appear before me.
Kyé! Dutiful servants sustaining a sacred covenant
With the Skull-garlanded Lotus-Born Guru,
Blazing Seven Nāga and Tsen Siblings,
Come hither, and abide in the support!
Carry out your activities according to your pledge!
oṃ nāga cantra ci raratri gingkara yakṣa yakṣa samaya citta hriṃ hriṃ jaḥ jaḥ | jaḥ hūṃ baṃ hoḥ | samaya āsana tiṣṭhantu ||
Flowers, incense, butter lamps,
Perfume, food, all pleasant things,
Tormas of every desirable sense pleasure:
Joyfully accept it all, without exception,
And whatever we yogis and our circle wish for,
Help us accomplish all our goals!
Smite all outer and inner enemies and obstructers,
Safeguard the doctrine of the awakened ones,
And faithfully fulfill the enjoined activities!
oṃ vajra arghaṃ pādyaṃ puṣpe dhūpe aloke gandhe naivedye śabda pratīccha svāhā ||
oṃ nāga cantra ci raratri gingkara yakṣa yakṣa samaya citta hriṃ hriṃ jaḥ jaḥ | saparivāra idaṃ balingta khakha khāhi khāhī ||
Blazing Seven, nāga and tsen siblings, along with your entourage, accept this immense sacrificial torma offering! Protect the buddha’s doctrine, honor and exalt the status of the Precious Ones, nurture and support the sangha and the entire Dharma realm! Dispel worldly degeneration! Spread benefit and happiness for beings! Support practitioners! Accomplish the activities of mantradharins! Overthrow malicious enemies! Conquer harmful obstructers! In particular, for all those united through this sacred pact, appease outer, inner, and secret adverse circumstances. Increase and spread all favorable conditions, and all aspirations for everything excellent. Please carry out your activities so that all the siddhis, mundane and supreme, may be quickly achieved!
Dutiful servants, treasure lords, remember your sacred covenant
With Padmasambhava, master of the maṇḍala!
Your strength and might unhindered, you pledged to enact the four activities.
Fulfiller of hopes, warrior tsens , I praise you!