Brief Sang Offering
In an instant I assume the form of the yidam deity.
Out of emptiness, the vast, jewelled vessel appears from bhrūṃ, within which
Oṃ melts into light, and out of the thick clouds of fragrant incense smoke with the power to dispel all contamination and impurity there arise countless offering-goddesses holding mirrors, flutes, bowls of incense, food and clothing,
As well as a boundless array of food, drink, clothing, ornaments, grains, medicines, silks and precious jewels.
The earth, air and sky are completely filled with the sang offering.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ
Light emanates from my heart centre and invites all the deities
Of the field of merit, who then abide in the sky before me.
To the root and lineage gurus, I present this sang offering:
Cause me to liberate my own mind through realization, I pray.
To the hosts of yidam deities, I present this sang offering:
Confer the attainment of ripening others’ minds through compassion.
To the buddhas of the ten directions, I present this sang offering:
Inspire me to be skilful in the methods of interdependence.
To the bodhisattvas, I present this sang offering:
Bless me so that all my connections may prove meaningful.
To the noble śrāvakas and pratyekabuddhas, I present this sang offering:
Uphold, preserve and and spread the teachings of the Buddha.
To the vīras and ḍākinīs, I present this sang offering:
Contribute to the activity of those who uphold the teachings.
To the dharma protectors and guardians, I present this sang offering:
Care for us practitioners as if we were your very own children.
To the eight classes—gods, nāgas, and the rest—I present this sang offering:
Carry out without obstruction the activities with which you are entrusted.
To the local deities and earth lords, I present this sang offering:
Dispel all obstacles and cause my aspirations to be fulfilled.
Let all impurity and contamination among gods and human beings
Be cleansed, cleared away by the purifying smoke of the sang.
And once all is made pure, like darkness banished by the rising sun,
May everything become as radiant as the peaks of snow mountains.
Whatever errors we’ve committed under the sway of ignorance,
Please forgive them, and return to your individual abodes.
Let all our wishes in accordance with the Dharma be fulfilled,
And all be auspicious, that virtue and excellence never cease.