Concise Stacked-Pills Torma Offering Water Offering Giving of Dharma Aspiration Prayers
In the Buddha, Dharma and the Supreme Assembly
I take refuge until I attain enlightenment.
Through the merit of practising generosity and the rest,
May I attain Buddhahood for the benefit of all beings!
oṃ svabhāva śuddhāḥ sarvadharmāḥ svabhāva śuddho ‘haṃ
From the state of emptiness, perfect in the very moment of recollection,
I visualize myself in the form of Lord Khasarpaṇi,
Standing upright and with his right hand in the mudrā of supreme generosity.
In front is Vairocana, Glacial Ocean. 1
Inside his body all the pure realms are perfectly present.
Between his uṣṇīṣa and his throat are the Three Jewels, the guests invited out of respect.
Between his heart and his navel
Are the protectors, invited on account of their qualities, and in the lower part of his body are the guests invited out of compassion.
On his lotus seat appear the obstructive forces to whom we owe karmic debts.
In my heart is the six-syllable mantra, from which light streams out,
Pleasing the recipients with offerings and purifying negative actions and obscurations.
All three realms transform into a pure realm.
oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ hrīḥ
Hrīḥ. From my heart emanates bhrūṃ,
Which transforms into a jewelled vessel equal in size to the three realms.
Within it are the three syllables, which melt and transform into an ocean of nectar
Composed of sensory delights and enjoyments, a true sky-treasury.
The three realms are a pure land,
The three planes of existence guests worthy of compassion,
And sustenance pervades everywhere without exception.
Through the power of realizing the nature of reality, I dedicate all this as an inexhaustible treasure.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ
oṃ namaḥ sarva-tathāgatāvalokite | oṃ sambhara sambhara hūṃ
Homage to the tathāgata Bountiful Riches.
Homage to the tathāgata Sublimely Handsome.
Homage to the tathāgata Infinite Body
Homage to the tathāgata Deity of Total Fearlessness.
From the hand of Noble Avalokiteśvara
A stream of milk flows down,
Satisfying and cleansing the pretas.
May they always be soothed!
oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ hrīḥ
oṃ jalam idaṃ sarvapretebhyaḥ svāhā
The hosts of pretas, as numerous as the grains in the river Ganges, are fulfilled and satisfied.
Commit not a single unwholesome action,
Cultivate a wealth of virtue,
To completely tame this mind of ours—
This is the teaching of the buddhas.
Through the power of this vast act of generosity
May we spontaneously attain buddhahood for the benefit of beings!
All those who were not liberated by the buddhas of the past,
Through this act of generosity, may they be liberated!